JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We bring you the
"NewsHour"
tonight from the Wells Fargo
Center in Philadelphia,
site of this week's Democratic
National Convention.
GWEN IFILL: It's the
convention's final day,
the climax of a week of
friction, politics
and excitement, as Democrats
prepare to hear
tonight from their nominee,
Hillary Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Plus: as the
glass ceiling
shatters, a look at the ways
hidden sexism
is playing out this election
among some male
voters.
DANIEL BUSH: Benevolent sexism,
which, from
a male point of view, encourages
men to be
supportive of women who are in
traditional
roles, traditional gender roles,
but when
women step out of that, men tend
to look at
them worse.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan
in Washington.
We will have all the
non-convention news of
the days, a shocking update on
what began
as an economic Cinderella story
in a depressed
corner of Vermont.
Job growth funded by a green
card program
ends in large-scale fraud.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more on
tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: It's the night the
Democrats have
been building toward all week.
In just a few hours, Hillary
Clinton takes
center stage, picking up the
baton handed
to her last night by President
Obama.
Correspondent John Yang begins
our coverage.
JOHN YANG: Inside the Wells
Fargo Center in
Philadelphia, the stage is set
for tonight's
big moment, Hillary Clinton's
acceptance speech.
Campaign officials say she will
highlight
the gathering's theme: stronger
together.
JENNIFER PALMIERI, Clinton
Campaign Communications
Director: This is a moment of
reckoning for
America, and we have two paths
that we can
take, one that seeks division,
one that gives
into forces that we are facing,
whether they
are economic or social, that
could divide
us, vs. a path that, in working
together,
is going to make America
stronger.
JOHN YANG: Even though Clinton's
been in the
public eye for more than two
decades, her
campaign considers this her
introduction to
the American people.
They call her the most famous
unknown person
in America.
She will be preceded on the
stage by her daughter,
Chelsea.
It won't be the nominee's first
time on the
convention stage this week.
Last night, she made a surprise
appearance
after President Obama's rousing
45-minute
endorsement.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
That's why I can say with
confidence there
has never been a man or a woman,
not me, not
Bill, nobody, more qualified
than Hillary
Clinton to serve as president of
the United
States of America.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
BARACK OBAMA: I hope you don't
mind, Bill,
but I was just telling the
truth, man.
JOHN YANG: Today, Clinton's
running mate,
Virginia Senator Tim Kaine,
spoke to delegates
from his childhood home of
Missouri.
SEN.
TIM KAINE (D-VA), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
We have a chance to make
history.
And when Hillary Clinton is
elected, that's
going to be historic.
But what's really going to be
historic is,
it's going to open up the
possibly of a whole
different class of successors,
just like when
President Obama was elected.
JOHN YANG: Meanwhile, Republican
Donald Trump
continues to campaign, holding
rallies in
Iowa.
Earlier, in a FOX News
interview, he was in
damage control, after he
suggested yesterday
that Russia find tens of
thousands of e-mails
missing from Clinton's private
server.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
When I'm being sarcastic with
something.
QUESTION: Were you being
sarcastic?
DONALD TRUMP: Of course I'm
being sarcastic.
But you have 33,000 e-mails
deleted.
And the real problem is what was
said on those
e-mails from the Democratic
National Committee.
You take a look at what was said
on those
e-mails, it's disgraceful.
JOHN YANG: In Philadelphia, as
the convention
reaches its climax, police
remain on alert.
Protests have been mostly
peaceful, with only
a small number of arrests.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang in Philadelphia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One thing that
has been clear
this week in Philadelphia is
that this has
been a week of criticism of
Donald Trump.
Let's take a look at that.
MICHELLE OBAMA, First Lady:
Don't let anyone
ever tell you that this country
isn't great,
that somehow we need to make it
great again,
because this, right now, is the
greatest country
on Earth.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
If you don't believe that this
election is
important, if you think you can
sit it out,
take a moment to think about the
Supreme Court
justices that Donald Trump would
nominate.
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (I), Former
Mayor of New
York: Bottom line is, Trump is a
risky, reckless
and radical choice, and we can't
afford to
make that choice.
SEN.
TIM KAINE: Folks, you cannot
believe one word
that comes out of Donald Trump's
mouth.
JOSEPH BIDEN, Vice President of
the United
States: His cynicism is
unbounded.
His lack of empathy and
compassion can be
summed up in the phrase I
suspect he's most
proud of having made famous,
"You're fired."
How can there be pleasure in
saying, "You're
fired"?
He is trying to tell us he cares
about the
middle class?
Give me a break.
That's a bunch of malarkey.
BARACK OBAMA: Our power doesn't
come from
some self-declared savior
promising that he
alone can restore order as long
as we do things
his way.
We don't look to be ruled.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
BARACK OBAMA: Our power -- our
power comes
from those immortal declarations
first put
to paper right here in
Philadelphia all those
years ago: We hold these truths
to be self-evident,
that all men are created equal,
that we the
people can form a more perfect
union.
GWEN IFILL: And now we turn to
Hillary Clinton's
strategist and pollster Joel
Benenson.
And Joel joins us now.
Tell us about that -- now that
this campaign,
this convention is almost over,
as you launch
into the general election, tell
us what the
key expectations are.
JOEL BENENSON, Clinton Campaign
Adviser: For
tonight or going forward?
GWEN IFILL: Going forward.
JOEL BENENSON: Look, I think
that we're in
the homestretch here, really.
You have about 100 days to go.
The convention is the last time
you get four
days to deliver your message
unfiltered without
interference largely from your
opponent, although
Trump kind of tried a little bit
yesterday.
GWEN IFILL: Interference.
JOEL BENENSON: I think he
created for interference
for himself.
I think what you want going
forward is, tonight,
you are going to see Hillary
Clinton lay out
a very clear choice of two
visions for America,
one that is optimistic, one that
is rooted
in the beliefs that we have
always been stronger
together as a country, from the
time our founders
struggled to come together in
Philadelphia,
in this city, to create this
nation up and
through today.
And with the challenges we face,
that's how
we will live up to our values
and be at our
best, vs. a very dark divisive
-- divisive
vision that Donald Trump laid
out.
And I think you have got to
drive that every
day.
I think you have got to talk
about how you're
going to create an economy that
works for
everyone, not just those at the
top, draw
a clear contrast on who can keep
America safe.
I think Mr. Trump, Donald Trump,
proved this
week he can't do that with
erratic statements,
like inviting Russia to start
hacking computers.
And I think you drive that every
day.
That's what you have to do that
from here
on out, consistently show people
the differences
about where you are going to
take the country,
what your values are that are
driving you
and will shape your presidency.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Joel
Benenson, are you
describing an effort to be just
about as negative
toward Donald Trump as the
Republicans are
toward Hillary Clinton?
JOEL BENENSON: No.
I think what I said is, you have
got to lay
out a choice and you have got to
do some contrast.
They're doing only contrast.
Donald Trump, as you heard
President Obama
say last night, has one answer:
I alone can
fix it.
He has got no prescriptions, no
real plans
that will create a single job,
no real plans
that will raise wages in America
or educate
a single child.
What Hillary Clinton has to do,
on balance,
is show people the positive,
affirmative,
uplifting vision she has, her
belief in the
way we solve our problems is by
working together,
by having each other's backs,
lifting each
other up, not tearing each other
apart.
I think you lean very heavily
towards the
positive, but you have to call
out your differences,
particularly when you have got
someone, as
you're hearing at this
convention, whom even
Democrats are calling a
demagogue, who are
turning away from their party,
who say -- people
like Michael Bloomberg.
Tonight, you will hear from
another one saying
it's -- we have to put our
country ahead of
our party.
GWEN IFILL: But here's the
thing.
You're banking on the idea that
talking about
the positive and personalizing
this toward
Donald Trump will somehow
outbalance this
nervousness among a lot of
individual Americans
that you're not listening, that
their lives
are not doing so well.
JOEL BENENSON: Oh, I don't think
I said that
at all, Gwen.
I think, in fact, what I said
is, you have
to have an affirmative vision of
how you're
going to create an economy that
works for
everyone.
That's not being personal about
Donald Trump.
When Donald Trump says to
Americans, wages
are too high, you're not going
to create an
economy that works for everyone
when you believe
that.
You have to do things that are
going to help
people get ahead in their lives.
And the bulk of what we have
been talking
about throughout our primaries
is how to put
the plans in place to do that.
One thing that Hillary Clinton
will be doing
in part in this speech and going
forward is
laying out very specific plans.
She said in one of the speeches
she gave a
couple of weeks ago, I have got
this old-fashioned
idea.
When you're running for
president, you have
got to tell people what you're
going to do,
how you're going to get it done
and how you're
going to pay for it.
And if you back to the
Republican Convention,
I don't think it's personal to
say that, if
you ask yourself right now, what
specific
policy idea did Donald Trump put
on the table
for the American people, other
than he was
going to build a wall?
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you reach
-- we keep
hearing that Hillary Clinton's
biggest problem
-- or one of her biggest
problems are white
male voters who have had not had
a college
education?
How do you reach them?
JOEL BENENSON: Look, I think the
number one
way you reach them is by showing
that you
understand the lives, the
struggles that they
have been feeling, that, in
parts of this
country, many of those voters
feel they are
being left out of a new and
changing economy.
But, by the same token, we put
together a
coalition, Democrats in general.
This has been part of a stronger
bloc for
Republicans for quite a while.
We have never given up on them.
We have talked about them.
President Clinton talks about
them and has
talked about addressing their
economic concerns
and how they can have
good-paying jobs in
the future.
And Hillary Clinton is the only
candidate
here in this race, you have to
remember, who
is really talking about creating
good-paying
jobs, and doing it not just the
old ways we
did it, by making investments in
things that
will help our country grow, and
grow together
and grow fairer.
So, when you talk about
infrastructure, it's
not just about rebuilding roads.
It's about modernizing our
schools, modernizing
our power grid, investing in
clean energy
for the future, which is where
we're going
to create the jobs of the
future, using technology
to be the clean energy
superpower of the 21st
century.
GWEN IFILL: Joel Benenson, thank
you for -- congratulations
on your big night tonight.
JOEL BENENSON: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Thank you for
joining us.
JOEL BENENSON: It's not my big
night.
It's the country's big night.
They have got Hillary Clinton as
a nominee
for president, a pioneering
woman, breaking
some barriers, like the two
women I'm sitting
here with.
GWEN IFILL: I like the way you
got that in.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes.
Well, we do.
GWEN IFILL: Thank you.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will be
watching.
JOEL BENENSON: Thank you.
Great.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
And, next, we head down to the
convention
floor, back to our own John
Yang.
John, you have been talking to
the Clinton
campaign.
What are they telling you they
want to get
done tonight, besides what we
just heard from
Joel?
JOHN YANG: Well, essentially, I
have been
-- in the words of one aide I
spoke to today,
they're trying to get her to
answer the question
what she's all about.
She realizes, or the campaign
realizes, that
a lot of people don't understand
what motivates
her, what's behind the causes
and issues she
cares about.
It's also going to be their way
to talk about
the trust issue, although they
say they're
not going to explicitly talk
about it in that
way.
She is also going to make an
appeal to independent
voters, to people who are not
Democrats, to
try to come over and support her
in this fall's
election.
They're going to do all this by
trying to
build on everything these
delegates have seen
and heard over the past three
nights, some
of the real people who came here
and gave
testimony and support of Hillary
Clinton,
talking about the things she has
done for
them in her career as a senator,
in her career
as first lady and as secretary
of state.
She's going to talk about those
people, and
some of them will actually be
here in the
hall tonight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: John Yang.
GWEN IFILL: Joel, we know that
you're on the
-- you're -- I mean, John, you
know -- we
were just talking to someone
named John.
We know you have been on the
floor.
The floor looks a little bit
different tonight.
I'm curious about how different
-- why that
might be.
What are we seeing?
JOHN YANG: Exactly, Gwen.
You can't see it quite behind
me.
But they have built out the
stage a little
bit.
And they have cleared out an
area.
And I'm led to believe -- I
don't know for
sure, but I'm led to believe
that there will
be special guests in that area,
perhaps even
the Clinton family, perhaps even
the Kaine
family.
GWEN IFILL: We even saw them
rehearsing something
they called a stunt for later
tonight.
So, I guess we will just have to
sit at the
edge of our seats and see what
that's going
to be.
John Yang, thank you very much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we love
suspense.
From there, we go to our team of
analysts
right here in our sky booth who
will be with
us all evening, as they have
been for this
entire convention, David Brooks
of The New
York Times, Mark Shields,
syndicated columnist,
Amy Walter of The Cook Political
Report.
Amy, I'm going to start with
you.
So, I don't know if you were
able to hear
some of what the Clinton people
want to get
done.
What do you think they need to
get done tonight
with -- especially with Hillary
Clinton's
speech?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Yes,
this is her chance to -- she got
it all teed
up basically these last few
days.
They set the table for her, and
now it's time
for her to finish what they
started.
She's got to make the case for
herself that
nobody else can make, and for
voters to see
somebody who looks more
three-dimensional,
that's not simply a caricature
that had been
sort of a part of the American
dialogue for
the last 25 years, to fill in
some of the
meat we have been talking about
for these
last few days on specific
policies.
It doesn't need to be deep and
it doesn't
need to be a 65-point plan, but
just to give
some concrete examples of how
this economy
is going to work for the people
that feel
right now it's not working for
them, and then
finally to get to central
tension of this
campaign.
This is a campaign where you
have Americans
now who want to see change.
And she is the status quo.
How can she be both status quo
and change?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark Shields,
what do you think?
What does she have to do
tonight?
MARK SHIELDS: I think she --
first of all,
it's a great victory,
acknowledge it.
She has made history.
The single worst campaign slogan
I have ever
heard, "I'm with her," it means
nothing.
It absolutely means nothing to
anybody.
GWEN IFILL: Maybe if you say
like, "I'm with
her."
MARK SHIELDS: I'm with her.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: I mean, like, get
over it.
I mean, it's about appealing --
and it says
nothing about anybody's life,
about the country.
I was just thinking tonight of
great speeches
given by presidents on such
occasions, and
the measure of our progress is
not whether
we add more to the abundance of
those who
have much, whether we provide
enough for those
who have too little, Franklin
Roosevelt.
That really is what Joel
Benenson was kind
of coming down to, that there
had to be some
economic message and some
economic hope for
those who have been left out of
this prosperity
that the Democrats have
celebrated.
And I just think it's got be --
you have got
to come out of here with a sense
of, this
is the difference she's going to
make in her
presidency.
And if you don't come out of
that with that
tonight, you're never going to
have a chance
again in the campaign, but for
the debates.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Brooks, you
and Mark
have, I think, basically agreed
for most of
this campaign that you haven't
heard from
Hillary Clinton the rationale
for her candidacy.
After all these months, do you
agree with
Mark it's still not there?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, I agree the
"I'm with her."
It's about I, though.
The great god of Narcissus...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: I actually
thought it was "Stronger
Together."
AMY WALTER: Well, now it is.
(CROSSTALK)
DAVID BROOKS: I would like to
see an animating
passion.
Tim Kaine actually had a good
line.
What animated you before you got
into politics?
And she actually does have a
story there to
tell about children.
And so drawing that animating
passion will
do good.
She has got to hit the safety
point.
They really have neglected, as
Amy keeps saying,
the ISIS point.
And if there is a drumbeat of
ISIS attacks
for the next few months, she has
to establish
herself on that issue.
And then, finally, the
emotionality.
We know the 65-point policy
points, to the
extent that they exist, but is
she willing
to be vulnerable, is she willing
to be funny,
is she willing to be both
authoritative, but
also real?
And so less what she says than
the emotional
tone she sets.
And it takes a lot of confidence
to be a vulnerable
speaker on this stage.
And sometimes she hasn't always
projected
the confidence it takes to be in
some ways
weak.
But that's what I think people
were looking
for, that moment of human
connection.
GWEN IFILL: Well, let's take
this beyond this
arena tonight, because they
leave echoes of
1992, on a bus tour, the running
mates, tomorrow,
and try to drive through Ohio
and Pennsylvania,
not just because we're in
Pennsylvania, but
because this is a good place to
drive through.
What kind of -- what are they
setting themselves
up for now as they go forward?
AMY WALTER: Well, it is
interesting that they
are going to all kinds of places
in these
two states.
They're going to Columbus, Ohio,
your sort
of quintessential suburban mom
battleground.
But they're also going to
Western Pennsylvania.
They're not ceding that
territory to Donald
Trump.
And, basically, I think that the
arc of this
entire convention has been, not
only are we
not going to cede a certain
vote.
We're going to diversify it, and
then we're
going to reach out and grab some
of those
Republicans.
You know, this is what didn't
happen at the
Republican Convention.
The Republican Convention was
about, we're
just going to double and triple
down on people
that are already part of our
party, and we're
going to just rile them up to
get them to
turn out.
This is about, yes, encouraging
the Obama
coalition, but also there was so
much time
spent yesterday and I think too
to those disaffected,
independent Republicans to come
over.
And they have got to make the
case that they're
worthy of their vote.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Mark Shields,
does that
mean they can count on their
base, including
the Bernie supporters, to be on
board enthusiastically
for Hillary Clinton?
MARK SHIELDS: Well,
enthusiastically -- Richard
Nixon said it best, Judy.
It makes no difference whether
they hold your
nose or whether they go would
through a wall
to vote for you.
It counts the same with the X.
And so I think some of the
Bernie Sanders
are not enthusiastic.
I think they are -- they will
vote for Hillary
Clinton.
There are a few die-hards, no
question about
it.
But I don't think it's that base
she's got
to worry about.
The idea of going to Franklin
County, Ohio,
which is Columbus, that is
surrounded by satellite
counties, all of which have been
very Republican,
very upscale, where John Kasich
ran well and
Donald Trump ran third in the
primary, as
opposed to Northeastern Ohio,
the real blue-collar,
Youngstown, Mahoning County,
where Donald
Trump rolled up the score and
crushed John
Kasich, and where Democrats are
nervous.
So, when you are fighting for
Ohio, it's really
a message, in Western
Pennsylvania as well,
that you have got a problem with
blue-collar
workers.
There's no doubt about it.
He's made inroads.
He's an appeal.
He's seen as the guy who's going
to take on
the people who got you.
Whether that's fair or -- we can
argue about
it, but that is -- he's the
first candidate
who has done that really in
memory, since
the collapse of the steel
industry in this
country.
So I think that's her job, is
that she's got
to try and get those disaffected
Republicans,
or the Republicans who are not
-- don't feel
comfortable with Donald Trump.
GWEN IFILL: As we sit here,
there's a sing-along
happening on the convention
floor, which has
already been gaveled into order.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: Carole King singing,
"You've Got
a Friend."
So, it seems to me like they
have a couple
of things they need to do, David
Brooks, which
is, we heard -- we keep hearing
it from Clinton
people.
Make her better known.
Is that even possible at this
point?
DAVID BROOKS: In theory.
But it hasn't happened.
It's not like she just burst on
the scene,
like she's a fresh new face.
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
DAVID BROOKS: She's like Carole
King.
Carole King has been around for
a little while.
And so -- but...
GWEN IFILL: But still makes you
warm and fuzzy
whenever you hear her.
DAVID BROOKS: That's true, just
like Hillary
Clinton, oddly.
But she -- I would love to see
something daring,
some side of Clinton that we
haven't seen
that the people talk about in
private, some
risk taken.
I mean, the big undercurrent of
this campaign
is, this is not a normal year.
By normal year standards, Donald
Trump should
be in freefall, and he's not.
He's hanging right in there.
So this is a year to do
something unusual,
and I would love the see her
surprise us with
something tonight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Brooks,
Mark Shields,
Amy Walter, we will be spending
a lot of time
with all of you tonight.
And tune in, when we do that,
for our joint
"PBS NewsHour"/NPR coverage of
the Democratic
National Convention starting
right here at
8:00 Eastern.
Now back to Hari Sreenivasan in
Washington.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks, Judy.
In the day's other news: Baton
Rouge, Louisiana,
held a vigil to honor three
police officers
who were killed earlier this
month.
They were ambushed by a gunman,
who was later
killed by a SWAT team member.
Today, hundreds of people paid
tribute to
the officers, including Vice
President Joe
Biden and U.S. Attorney General
Loretta Lynch.
LORETTA LYNCH, U.S. Attorney
General: In the
face of division, people who
sought to come
into a beautiful town and tear
it apart, in
the face of that desire to sow
hatred, we
come together in love.
Baton Rouge has chosen that.
The state has seen it.
The country has seen it.
You are the example for cities
who are facing
these problems.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The attack on
the officers
came during tensions over the
death of a black
man in a struggle with white
police.
In Syria, the government and its
Russian allies
offered to open humanitarian
corridors out
of the embattled city of Aleppo.
Some 300,000 people are trapped
in the eastern
part of the city that is held by
rebels.
Government troops have encircled
the area,
after intense fighting, and the
army dropped
leaflets about the -- quote --
"safe exit
plan."
A special U.N. envoy says
conditions there
are desperate.
STAFFAN DE MISTURA, Special
United Nations
Envoy for Syria: There is
probably, we heard,
two to three weeks of supply,
and in view
of the bombing of the
warehouses, medical
facilities, bakeries, the
humanitarian situation
is getting more and more
concerning.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also today,
Syria's President,
Bashar al-Assad, offered general
amnesty for
rebels who give up their weapons
and surrender
over the next three months.
Back in this country, Wall
Street turned in
another so-so day.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 15 points
to close at 18456.
The Nasdaq rose 15 points, and
the S&P 500
added three.
And a light show over parts of
the Western
U.S. last night turned out to be
a Chinese
rocket burning up in the
atmosphere.
Social media users captured an
object flaring
up, and leaving streaks of
flames behind it.
Sightings were reported from
California to
Utah.
It's unclear if the rocket posed
any danger
to those on the ground.
The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration today
asked blood centers in two in
Florida counties
to suspend blood donations until
each unit
can be screened for the Zika
virus.
This comes as state health
officials investigate
four non-travel-related cases of
Zika, which
may mean the first cases of
local Zika virus
transmission by mosquitoes in
the United States.
For an update on all this, I
spoke earlier
this evening with Dr. Anthony
Fauci, director
of the National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious
Diseases.
I'm joined now by Dr. Anthony
Fauci, director
of the National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious
Diseases at the NIH.
Thanks for joining us.
DR.
ANTHONY FAUCI, Director,
National Institute
of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases: Good to
be with you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
first of all,
this change in status almost,
what does this
warning in Florida mean?
DR.
ANTHONY FAUCI: Well, the warning
from the
FDA is saying that in the
regions in Miami-Dade
and Broward County where you
have what looks
like local transmission of
cases, namely,
cases that are not
travel-related, don't appear
to be sexually transmitted, and
very likely
mosquito-transmitted locally,
mainly because
those people never left the
continental United
States, so they didn't get
infected elsewhere,
given that, what the FDA is
doing is, they're
saying there may be more cases
out there.
So, in order to protect the
blood supply and
to be very safe and to keep it
safe, they
are suspending the collection of
blood from
those two areas until they can
implement either
testing of the units as they are
donated or
decontaminating of any potential
units that
might be potentially
contaminated.
So, they want to be quite safe
about it and
very prudent, so that we don't
get contamination
of the blood supply.
That's what their particular
order is regarding
collection of bloods.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, halting
the collection
of blood, that is a pretty
extreme step.
That has got to affect local
hospitals that
use it, other places that use
blood.
Is there some evidence that you
would base
a significant move like this on,
an idea that
there are local mosquitoes there
that would
be carrying Zika?
DR.
ANTHONY FAUCI: Well, there's no
doubt that
the mosquitoes that are capable
of transmitting
Zika are in that area.
This is the Aedes aegypti
mosquito that's
extensively seen along the Gulf
Coast, the
Gulf Coast states, and up across
in part of
the East Coast and a little bit
out towards
the West, but certainly along
the Gulf Coastal
states.
We know that we have now more
than 1,600 travel-related
cases, which is the reason why
one would have
predicted that, sooner or later,
you're going
to see some local transmission.
And the local transmission that
we're seeing
now is the kind of thing that
makes one want
to make sure we do what we can
to prevent
that local transmission from
becoming sustained
and from becoming disseminated.
And the answer to that is by
very aggressive
mosquito control.
HARI SREENIVASAN: If the FDA
thinks that this
is a good step in the Miami
area, or Dade
County, Broward county area, why
not the entire
southern half of the United
States and where
these mosquitoes could be
traveling?
DR.
ANTHONY FAUCI: Well, you don't
want to do
what is called overreact.
And at this point, with the very
local in
two areas cases now, now four
cases that are
under investigation, I think
that that is
prudent enough to do what they
did, because
experience with other viruses,
such as chikungunya
and dengue, is that when you do
get local
spread like this, it tends to
stay well-contained,
particularly if you do adequate
and aggressive
mosquito control.
So there is not a prediction
that it is going
to be widespread throughout the
area.
So what they're doing is,
they're taking the
prudent step of saying, for the
time being,
until we learn otherwise, we're
going to hold
off on the collection of blood
that would
supply this particular two areas
in Florida.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, should
there be a screen
on blood donations throughout
larger regions?
Because the FDA came up for a
test for that
a couple of months ago, right?
DR.
ANTHONY FAUCI: Right.
They came up with a test.
And what's being done is
essentially what's
being done right now in Puerto
Rico.
So, Puerto Rico has a very
extensive outbreak
that's getting worse and worse
as the weeks
go by.
There is so much transmission in
Puerto Rico
that, right now, they're
actually doing the
screening of the blood supply
that we're talking
about.
But when you have just a couple
of cases here
and there without the evidence
of any massive
spread, the prudent decision was
to just let's
just hold off on collection of
blood, and
if it gets any worse or it gets
to the point
where it's more disseminated,
then we will
do other things.
But, right now, they're going to
ultimately
-- they're going to ultimately
test the blood
supply there.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Anthony Fauci
joining us from the National
Institutes of
Health tonight, thanks so much.
DR.
ANTHONY FAUCI: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now an update
to a story
we first reported last year
about an economic
development project that
promised to bring
jobs to rural Vermont and green
cards to foreign
investors.
Now it's at the center of
federal fraud allegations.
Economics correspondent Paul
Solman has the
story.
It's part of our series Making
Sense, which
airs Thursdays on the
"NewsHour."
PAUL SOLMAN: Just four miles
from the Canadian
border, surf's up, however
improbably, or
was up at the Jay Peak Resort,
when we visited
last fall.
The resort is part of a
half-billion dollar
development project designed to
transform
the economically depressed
Northeast Kingdom,
as this corner of Vermont is
called, with
foreign investment.
The developer, Bill Stenger.
BILL STENGER, CEO, Jay Peak
Resort: In the
last seven years, we have
constructed three
different hotels, a beautiful
indoor water
park, ice arena, conference
center, wedding
facility.
And we have had a tremendous
impact on our
local economy regionally as
well.
PAUL SOLMAN: A local economy
that, for most
of Vermont's history, has been
at the very
bottom, but was suddenly leading
the state
in job creation.
So the story seemed to be
win-win-win, Northeast
Kingdom wins, tourists win, and
so do the
foreign investors, not only with
a promised
return on their investment, but
-- and here's
the novel incentive of the
so-called EB-5
visa program -- with green
cards, permanent
resident visas for the investors
and their
families, in exchange for
forking over $500,000
to private companies to create
at least 10
jobs in areas of deep
unemployment.
Do you think it is fair that
rich people get
to come to the United States,
when there are
so many truly desperate emigres
from a place
like Syria, say, out there on
the water as
we speak?
BILL STENGER: I'm seeking
capital from a legal
source that's been in existence
since 1990
that is promoted by our
government, helps
us.
PAUL SOLMAN: Well, they
certainly seem to
be improving life in and around
Jay Peak.
Before the EB-5-funded
renovation and expansion
began in 2008, this was a ski
slope going
downhill.
When we visited last year, it
was a year-round
resort attracting a million
customers annually
to its rides, rinks,
restaurants.
Dining revenues alone topped $10
million a
year, double what the entire
resort took ink
pre-EB-5.
MAN: To do something like this
for this area
is immense.
It's priceless.
PAUL SOLMAN: For chef Mike
Eldred and his
assistant, Bob McCrary, economic
growth has
meant career growth as well.
MAN: It gives me an opportunity
where I can
become a supervisor.
I can keep moving up.
PAUL SOLMAN: Growth that even
benefited the
local quilting bee, whose
membership has quadrupled
in their new digs.
Helen Short is a nurse from
nearby Enosburg
Falls.
HELEN SHORT, Nurse: I
voluntarily went up
and spoke to Bill Stenger
because I wanted
to thank him.
A lot of the farms were going
out of business.
There wasn't much opportunity
for the youth
in this area.
And now you have come here, and
it's like
this big enterprise and there is
building
and construction going on, and
students are
employed in high school.
PAUL SOLMAN: As lifeguards, ski
patrols, desk
clerks.
No wonder that in neighboring
Newport, Bill
Stenger was celebrated as man of
the year,
if not the millennium.
Newport was where Stenger and
his partner,
Ariel Quiros, had half-a-dozen
new EB-5 projects
pending, most ambitiously, some
said delusionally,
a stem cell manufacturing
facility affiliated
with a South Korean biotech
firm.
ARIEL QUIROS, Chairman: We also
will co-develop
and manufacture various kinds of
artificial
organs, such as artificial
kidney, heart and
liver.
PAUL SOLMAN: Skeptical yet?
Back in December, investors like
Tony Sutton
in England were complaining they
had been
scammed, and gotten no return at
all on their
investment.
TONY SUTTON, Investor: They gave
us all IOUs.
And if you look at the company
that the IOUs
are drawn against, our research
suggests that
that company has no assets, no
income and
no way of servicing the IOUs for
any of the
investors.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, you don't think
you will
ever get your capital back?
TONY SUTTON: No, not from Jay
Peak.
PAUL SOLMAN: Meanwhile,
developer Stenger
was all innocence, claiming to
be stung by
any suspicions.
BILL STENGER: Hundreds of
families are relying
on me and my team to implement
what we do,
and do it right.
PAUL SOLMAN: Look, relying on
him, they were.
But the reason for this update
is that, in
April, the Securities and
Exchange Commission
charged Bill Stenger and Ariel
Quiros with
52 counts of federal securities
violations,
alleging they'd misused more
than $200 million
in investor funds, of $350
million total,
and that Quiros had personally
stolen over
$55 million to buy, among other
things, a
$4 million condo on New York's
Fifth Avenue,
and a $2.5 million crib on the
Hudson River.
The state and FBI are also
investigating for
criminal violations.
So, it turned out to be even
worse than you
thought?
ANNE GALLOWAY, Vermont
Journalism Trust: It
did, indeed.
PAUL SOLMAN: Investigative
reporter Anne Galloway
has been covering Jay Peak, and
uncovering
questionable practices there,
for years.
But even she is shocked by the
extent of the
alleged fraud.
ANNE GALLOWAY: It took me a
while to wrap
my head around it, the scale of
it.
PAUL SOLMAN: It was a Byzantine
scheme, says
the SEC.
Instead of using EB-5 funds as
required by
law, Stenger and Quiros wove a
tangled web
of diversion and deception.
ANNE GALLOWAY: They used margin
loans.
They used Treasury bills.
They used 100 different bank
accounts and
many different banks.
PAUL SOLMAN: Quiros is fighting
the charges.
Stenger, who declined our
request for an interview,
is trying to settle with the SEC
and keep
the boat afloat.
ANNE GALLOWAY: He goes in every
day, under
the supervision of the receiver,
Michael Goldberg,
to keep the resort operating
smoothly.
PAUL SOLMAN: Galloway quotes
Goldberg saying
that, unlike Quiros, Stenger did
not siphon
personal funds from the fraud.
And the receiver is working on
behalf of the
people who've lost their money
to try to recover
as much of it as possible?
ANNE GALLOWAY: That's right.
But keeping it open is a
challenge.
And they have 700 investors who
have been
hurt by this, and that's a very
tough problem
to solve.
PAUL SOLMAN: Some investors,
like Tony Sutton,
who put his money in the fully
built Tram
Haus Lodge, at least got their
green cards.
But more than half did not, and
probably never
will, because their unfinished
projects will
not have created the necessary
10 jobs per
investor.
And of the 400 or so investors
who may never
get permanent green cards, how
many will get
their money back?
ANNE GALLOWAY: At this point,
it's not clear
that any of them are going to
get all of their
money back.
PAUL SOLMAN: And, thus, the
largest EB-5 project
in Vermont may become the
largest fraud in
Vermont's and EB-5's history,
and a key prompt
to reform America's
cash-for-visas program.
This is economics correspondent
Paul Solman,
reporting from Northeast
Kingdom, Vermont.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We like to
think that when
we step into the voting booth,
we make rational
decisions when casting our
votes.
We pick one candidate over
another because
of their policies, or their
positions on the
issues.
But there's a growing body of
evidence indicating
that other factors might also be
at play.
William Brangham has more on
that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Hillary
Clinton secured
the Democratic nomination in
large part by
racking up big numbers with
women voters,
black voters and Latino voters.
But she did worst among one
particular demographic:
white males.
Why is that?
Is it her policies?
Or is it that she's a woman?
The "NewsHour"'s Daniel Bush has
just written
a fascinating piece exploring
what might be
going on in voters' minds and
what this means
for the coming election, now
that we have
the first woman ever at the top
of a major
political party.
Daniel joins me now.
I wonder, what was it you were
really trying
to get at with this piece?
DANIEL BUSH: There was an
interesting gender
gap that played out in the
primaries.
We saw that, in more diverse
states, especially
in the South, Clinton did very
well with men,
African-Americans, Latinos.
But once we got up into the
Midwest, the Rust
Belt, a different story played
out.
Bernie Sanders carried the male
vote by 29
points in Wisconsin, by 19
points in West
Virginia, and the list goes on
and on and
on.
And there's obviously a lot of
factors why
white men might not want to vote
for Hillary
Clinton in the general election,
also in the
primaries, but gender is
obviously sort of
an underlying current in this
election.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In your piece,
you introduced
me to a term I had never heard
about before.
It's called ambivalent sexism.
What is that?
DANIEL BUSH: So, researchers who
study these
issues, who study bias and
stereotyping, for
a long time thought that
stereotyping was
basically uniformly negative.
But what researchers who focus
on gender specifically
in the 1990s and on have
realized is that
gender bias takes different
forms.
So, there's what they call
hostile sexism,
sort of overtly negative views
of women, what
we typically associate with
gender discrimination,
right?
Then there's also ambivalent or
benevolent
sexism, which, from a male point
of view,
encourages men to be supportive
of women who
are in traditional roles,
traditional gender
roles, but when women step out
of that, when
they seek power, when they seek
to enter male-dominated
fields, men tend to look at them
worse.
And obviously we're seeing that
play out with
Hillary Clinton.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In piece, you
talked with
a lot of white male voters in
Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Obviously, when someone is
asked, they're
going to say, I'm not a sexist,
I don't have
those feelings.
So, how did you see this play
out in the men
that you talked to?
DANIEL BUSH: So, I talked to a
lot of voters
who said, yes, I feel
comfortable voting for
a woman, but just not Hillary
Clinton.
She's not the right one.
And then they went on to list a
number of
reasons: She's too shrill, she's
too loud,
she's not trustworthy.
And while they may feel that
about Clinton,
sort of generally speaking, on a
personal
level, without realizing that it
has to do
with gender, all of the
signifiers that they
used to describe a woman in
power or running
for a top position in government
sort of come
into play and are connected to
the way that
researchers look at gender bias
and discrimination.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: How do we know
with some
of the other men that you talked
to, or just
men more broadly, that their
beef with Hillary
Clinton might be about her
policies or her
positions?
I mean, how do we know that it's
overtly about
the fact that she's a woman?
DANIEL BUSH: On an individual,
case-by-case
basis, it's difficult to say,
yes, this voter
in particular doesn't like
Hillary Clinton
only because she is a woman.
And, of course, there are
millions of voters
across the country, in the
primaries, and
there will be in the general,
who have legitimate
policy disagreements, right,
with Clinton,
whether it's about health care,
whether it's
about taxes, and so on.
But when you really start
talking to men -- and
in this story in particular, we
were looking
at white men -- you see that
gender is an
underlying sort of current in
the way that
they think about Hillary
Clinton.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, going
forward, we have
now an election with Trump
against Hillary.
How do you foresee this
particular conversation
playing out?
DANIEL BUSH: The people that I
spoke to for
this piece compared it a little
bit to the
change in dialogue on race
relations after
President Obama was elected.
And we might see a similar thing
play out
here where, whether Clinton wins
or loses,
there's going to be sort of a
more -- a greater
public consciousness, right,
about gender,
about gender roles, about the
way that men
and women hold power in the
country.
And it might be ugly.
It might be divisive.
We can certainly expect that in
the general
election campaign.
But, hopefully, at least it will
get people
talking about it and thinking
about it as
well.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right, the
"NewsHour"'s
Daniel Bush, thanks for this.
Great reporting.
DANIEL BUSH: Thanks for having
me.
HARI SREENIVASAN: For more on
the gender gap
and the future of the Democratic
Party, we
go back to Gwen and Judy in
Philadelphia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you, Hari.
And we pick up on the challenges
Hillary Clinton
faces, especially with white
male voters in
this election, with Richard
Trumka.
He's the president of the
AFL-CIO.
It's the largest organization of
labor unions
in the country.
And Senator Cory Booker of New
Jersey.
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
Rich Trumka, let me start with
you.
Pick up on what you just heard
from our reporter
Dan Bush.
What do you hear, what do you
know about your
rank-and-file union members who
are hearing
Donald Trump saying, "I will be
your voice,
if you feel forgotten, I will be
your voice,"
and then how does that square
with this -- whether
it's latent or another form of
sexism that
may be going on?
RICHARD TRUMKA, President,
AFL-CIO: Well,
I think he's successfully tapped
into the
frustration and anger across the
white males
and across the working people in
general.
But when you give them the facts
about his
policies, that he thinks our
wages are too
high, that he supports
right-to-work, they
come back across the bridge.
Look, in the last election, we
had the same
problem with Barack Obama.
It was because of race, not sex
at that point
or gender.
And we were able, given our
program, talking
our member-to-member program, it
was a 56-percent
difference, 56-point difference
between union
white males and the white males
of the general
population, because we gave them
the facts,
we talked to them,
member-to-member stuff,
and we will be able to do the
same thing in
this election.
GWEN IFILL: Senator Booker,
given what we
know about Donald Trump's
strengths, as well
as Hillary Clinton's strengths
and weaknesses,
who are the Clinton voters and
who are not
the Clinton voters?
Who's not worth going after?
SEN.
CORY BOOKER (D), New Jersey:
Well, I think
we have got to play the full
court and try
to get every voter that we can.
Now, there's naturally a base
for the Democratic
Party.
And any Democrat running is
trying to get
that Obama coalition, which is
an increasingly
diverse voter base.
It's young folks.
It's minorities, as well as
white women.
But I don't think we as a party
can afford
to alienate or not try to speak
to the concerns,
fears, insecurities, aspirations
of white
men.
We should not give up that
ground.
GWEN IFILL: How do you do that?
How does she do that?
SEN.
CORY BOOKER: Well, I think we do
that by talking
about the issues, by talking
about where people
are, what they're struggling
with, whether
it's the high cost of college
education, whether
it's the fact that they're
working harder
than their parents, but making
less money.
It's trying to do things like
talk to them
about expanding opportunity
through infrastructure
investment and the kind of
things that grow
solid middle-class jobs.
So, I'm a competitor.
And I don't want to say, hey,
just because
this person is a woman or this
person is a
minority, that they're not going
to get the
white male vote.
We want everybody to think about
what's in
their interests.
And I believe that our party
platform has
a better vision and better
actually pathway
for white Americans, as well
black Americans,
Latino Americans, women, and so
forth, to
be successful.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Rich Trumka,
how do you
know that describing what
Hillary Clinton
wants to do is going to be
enough against
what's almost a siren song
coming from Donald
Trump that, I will be there for
you, this
is a -- we live in a fearful
time, it's a
dangerous time, and we all -- we
need somebody
to protect us, and I will be
there and I will
create jobs and build a wall,
and I will do
all the rest of it?
RICHARD TRUMKA: Judy, you forget
that we face
a campaign of fear and division
every day
at the workplace or every time
we try to organize
a work site.
We're able to get through that
by talking
through the facts and having
people join together.
Look, Donald Trump, I will say
three things
about Donald Trump.
One, he's unfit to be president.
Two, he would make it much more
difficult
for working people to make ends
meet.
And, three, he would tear our
country apart.
When you talk to them about
those three things,
they really do understand.
They're very thoughtful.
Working people really amaze me.
When you give them all the
facts, they make
the right decision every single
time.
GWEN IFILL: But given what we
have seen here
on this convention floor, isn't
trade policy,
couldn't that be a breaking
point, a weak
point?
RICHARD TRUMKA: Well, it's an
exceptional
-- it's exceptionally important.
Look, we have a raising wages
agenda.
And that includes tax policy,
trade policy.
TPP is a very bad agreement.
Covers 40 percent of the world's
economy,
and it will cost us jobs.
It's not well-drafted.
It's an agreement, an investment
agreement
that will benefit Wall Street a
lot, but not
working people.
Hillary Clinton has the same
exact position.
She's against TPP.
She will be against TPP.
GWEN IFILL: Now.
That's all it takes?
RICHARD TRUMKA: Well, but, look,
let's talk
about what's a responsible
legislator.
You can be dogmatic, like Donald
Trump, and
say don't tell me any of the
facts, I have
made up my mind, I don't want to
hear anything,
or you can say, look, trade can
be good or
it can be bad, depending on the
rules.
When she saw the rules that were
drafted,
she said, this doesn't make it,
just like
we did.
And so she was against it.
That's responsible legislating.
I wish more legislators would do
exactly that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator Booker,
pick up on
that, because we have got a
chorus of Bernie
Sanders supporters out there
who, for the
last three nights, have been
holding up signs
-- or, essentially, their
argument is, Hillary
Clinton was late to this
position, she took
this position for political
reasons.
We're hearing the same thing
from Donald Trump.
SEN.
CORY BOOKER: Well, speaking as
somebody who
voted against TPA and has a lot
of suspicions
about TPP that are reflected in
our concerns
about what's hurting the
American economy
and what the opportunity is to
grow, I have
to say I like a person like
Hillary Clinton
who is willing to analyze the
facts.
I have met no one smarter than
her in politics.
In fact, some of my
conversations with her
over the last few weeks made me
go home and
start studying, because I wanted
to be able
to keep up on some policy
issues.
So I'm happy that she came to a
conclusion
after studying this that
resonates with what
Mr. Trumka was saying.
So, I just believe right now,
more than ever,
if you are a working-class
American -- I don't
care if you're a working-class
white, if you're
a working-class black, what your
ethnic background
is -- if you look at our two
party platforms,
especially if you're a union
member -- this
is not just about TPP.
It's even just the right to
organize unions
is being assaulted by the
Republican Party
on a continuous basis.
We see it in the Senate.
So the things that have built
this country,
strong middle-class jobs, we're
fighting for
those.
And as I sit in the Senate, and
see what Republicans
are often advocating, it's those
kind of tax
loopholes for the richest of the
rich or,
frankly, for corporations and
giving incentives
for them to move jobs and
opportunity overseas.
So, this has got to be an
election where we
talk to people's interests.
And what I don't want to see my
party do is
to begin to talk down towards
white men, as
if their concerns are not
legitimate and that
we shouldn't be listening to a
lot of their
aspirations and hopes as well.
GWEN IFILL: Senator Booker, you
and I have
talked about this lot.
Four years -- eight years ago,
we saw the
breakthrough with President
Obama.
And Americans had to adjust
their thinking
in order to elect the first
black president.
What is necessary for Americans
to elect the
first woman president?
More or less difficult?
SEN.
CORY BOOKER: Well, I think that
we need to
have an honest conversation in
this country.
And this idea that somehow we're
beyond sexism,
beyond racism is just wrong.
And this is where having an
honest conversation
with white men about their
issues and their
concerns, and having honest
conversations
about the experiences that
African-Americans
are still having, despite who's
the president
of the United States, in the
criminal justice
system that we see in
sentencing, we see in
policing and a lot of these
issues.
Gender bias is real.
I was an early Obama supporter,
and I was
even shocked at the way the
media treated
President Obama vs. how they
treated Secretary
Clinton.
Questions that were asked about,
what is wearing,
how much does she weigh, about
her hair were
never ascribed to the president.
We live in a gender-biased
world.
I see -- saw it growing up with
a mom who
was one of first people -- women
to make high
ranks in IBM, and the stories
that I heard
around my kitchen table about
what she experienced.
So, I know we have a lot.
But I do know that this history
we're making
tonight, when Hillary Clinton
will accept
the nomination, I think it's
going to go good
steps in helping this country
heal from its
past and grow towards its future
that's more
inclusive, more accepting and
more realizing
that every American has value
and that discrimination
has no place in politics, in the
workplace
or anywhere at all.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Rich Trumka,
let's just come
back to that first question we
talked about,
based on our earlier reporting.
Are you having, are your
associates having
honest conversations, as Senator
Booker just
said, about what is sexism that
still exists
among men?
RICHARD TRUMKA: We started --
after Ferguson,
I appointed a race commission in
the AFL-CIO.
And we went around the country
talking first
to our members, outside the
spotlight, not
public conversations, but
private conversations.
And it was amazing to see the
difference.
It takes about an
hour-and-a-half for people
in a room to start trusting each
other enough
to be able to start telling
what's really
in their heart and then sharing
it with one
another.
They don't feel they are going
to be attacked.
The same is true about sex
gender.
Look, we had this conversation
when Hillary
ran against President Obama.
We had that conversation.
We had a twofer at that time,
because I would
say to our members, if you're
not voting for
Barack Obama because he's black,
you're wrong.
If you're not voting for Hillary
Clinton because
she's a woman, you're equally
wrong.
And so we started that
conversation.
We still have a long way to go.
I think, quite frankly, we're
further along
with that conversation with the
American worker
than we are with race.
I think race is sort of more
hidden and more
difficult to pull out and get
people to start
confronting and talking about.
SEN.
CORY BOOKER: But I see great
signs, when you
have the head of the FBI,
Republican, Comey,
talking about implicit racial
bias, how we
can deal with it.
Our country really is coming to
a point where
we're having more constructive
conversations.
And I have tremendous hope.
RICHARD TRUMKA: Yes.
Yes, I think so too.
GWEN IFILL: And it's a
conversation we're
going to have to continue
another time, because
we can't right now.
Cory Booker, Rich Trumka, thank
you both very
much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you both.
SEN.
CORY BOOKER: Thank you.
RICHARD TRUMKA: Thanks for
having us on.
GWEN IFILL: And finally tonight,
a different
view of the convention floor.
Curators from the Smithsonian
Museum of American
History are on hand tonight, and
were in Cleveland
last week for the Republican
Convention.
It's a decades-long tradition,
and a mission
to preserve political history.
We caught up with a couple of
the curators
recently.
LISA KATHLEEN GRADDY, Curator,
Smithsonian
National Museum of American
History: We are
the world's biggest trollers for
objects.
We walk up to people and say,
hi, I really
like that hat you're wearing.
Don't suppose you would like it
to be part
of the national collection?
My name is Lisa Kathleen Graddy.
And I'm a curator at the
Smithsonian's National
Museum of American History.
The Smithsonian has been
collecting the convention
since 1960, so we're here to
interact with
the delegates and to pick up
material from
them that show their particular
support of
their candidate.
JON GRINSPAN, Curator,
Smithsonian National
Museum of American History:
People usually
love the Smithsonian.
So, that's a great conversations
starter.
My name is Jon Grinspan.
I'm a curator at the National
Museum of American
History.
It's a lot of being nice to
people.
It's a lot of handing out cards,
complimenting
people's objects that they have
brought, and
trying to at the end of the week
get them
to give it to us or donate it to
us.
LISA KATHLEEN GRADDY: One of the
most significant
things about this election is,
it's the first
time that a woman will be
running as a major
party's candidate.
We will be looking for things
that show women's
support of Hillary Clinton as a
woman candidate.
I was up in a higher level and
saw a woman
on the floor wearing Minnie
Mouse ears with
a Hillary Clinton button in the
middle of
the bow.
I successfully located her in
the Florida
delegation, and she's going to
send me her
Minnie Mouse ears.
JON GRINSPAN: And other things,
we look for
objects that say 2016, that say
something
about Hillary, or about Trump,
or immigration,
or issues of the day, so that,
in the future,
you can use these objects as a
document to
try to understand the past.
LISA KATHLEEN GRADDY: Something
that's yours
and you kind of treat with a
little bit of
a cavalier fashion, once we get
it to a museum,
it becomes a museum object.
And we wear white gloves and we
give it a
specific number, so we can track
it for the
rest of its life in the
collection.
JON GRINSPAN: We have these
collections that
go back for campaigning
throughout American
history, from William Henry
Harrison in 1840
to Lincoln in 1860.
LISA KATHLEEN GRADDY: We have
Ike Girl dresses,
and we have hats, and we have
buttons, things
that now we look at and think,
well, isn't
that sort of funny, these
buttons, these hats,
but in a hundred years' time
will also be
national treasures.
GWEN IFILL: I may have some of
those buttons.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Me, too.
GWEN IFILL: Well, from
Philadelphia, that's
the "NewsHour" for tonight.
But stay with us.
We will be back right here at
8:00 p.m. Eastern
with full coverage of theMD-BO /
Democratic
Convention.
I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online throughout this
night and again
right here tomorrow evening,
with Mark Shields
and David Brooks.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you right
back here shortly.